OVERVIEW
 * OVERVIEW                                            [Last Updated 2015/08/01]

	This program is designed to assist with the running of the Cecil County
Fair livestock auction. It generates the auction order, tracks buyer purchases,
produces receipts for buyers, and tracks where all of the animals are supposed
to go after the auction.

	It is designed to allow multiple clients to connect to a single database.
Allowing multiple users to register buyers, track the auction, and assist with
buyer checkout. Any changes made by one user will be visible by everyone running
the system with in a few seconds.

 * HARDWARE AND NETWORK REQUIREMENTS                   [Last Updated 2015/08/02]
 
	Client computers running the program must be connected together on a local
network. All clients must be able to connect to the central database. For
security, it is recommended that this network be dedicated for the auction and
isolated from the Internet.

	It is recommended that wired Ethernet connections be used wherever possible,
though wireless connections can be used when necessary. A typical SOHO wireless
router is recommended to provide wired and wireless networking as it will
provide DHCP services on the network, simplifying configuration. Ensure that the
wireless network is properly secured to prevent anyone any unauthorized used
from inadvertently or deliberately connecting. A wired Ethernet switch can be
added if more ports are needed.

	Printers are required to print receipts. Laser printers are recommended for
their speed. It is recommended that each client that will preform checkout have
their own printer to avoid confusion. Printers can be connected to the network
or directly to the client computers.

 * SOFTWARE REQUIREMENTS                               [Last Updated 2015/07/31]
    
	To run the Livestock auction client a system must have the following
software...
	** Microsoft Windows XP or later
	** Microsoft .Net Framework 3.5 Client
	** Microsoft System CLR Types for SQL Server 2012
	** Microsoft Report Viewer 2012 Runtime
	
	To run the Livestock auction database a system must have the following...
	** Microsoft SQL Server 2012 or later
 
 * INSTALLATION AND SETUP                              [Last Updated 2015/08/02]

	Microsoft SQL Server is used for the database. The "Express" edition is
sufficient for this application and is available for free download. This
document assumes that SQL Server has been installed using "Mixed Mode"
authentication (this option is prompted for during installation). Once SQL
Server is installed, it must be configured to allow remote connections. Using
the "Sql Server Configuration Manager", ensure that the TCP/IP protocol is
enabled (this option is found under "Protocols" under "SQL Server Network
Configuration". The firewall on the system running SQL Server must also be
configured to allow incoming connections to SQL Server.

	There is currently no installation script for the program. Simply install
the prerequisite software listed above and copy the "Livestock Auction.exe"
application anywhere on the client machine, and run it.

	When the program is first started, it will prompt for database connection
information. This information includes the address and instance of the SQL
server database to use, the name of the database, and the user name and
password to be used to authenticate with the database.
 
 * DATABASE MAINTENENCE
 
	Backing up the database
	
	Restoring the database
	
USAGE SUMMARY
 * 

BEFORE THE AUCTION
 * CREATING THE DATABASE                               [Last Updated 2014/07/27]

    The database, and all of the necessary tables, views, and stored procedures,
can be created automatically by the program. When connecting to the database,
specify a valid SQL Server instance, credentials, and the name of the database
to be created. When the database instance is not found, the program will prompt
the user as to whether or not they want to create a new database. Selecting
"Yes" will crate a new database, "No" should be selected if the creation of a
database was not desired.

    Developer Notes: The behavior of the database creation is handled in
clsAuctionDataCollection.cs. In this file, an abstract class is defined in a
Setup namespace, called AuctionDBSetup. This class defines several methods for
building database objects. Setup classes derived from this class are defined in
the various database classes (clsBuyer, clsExhibit, etc...). The derived classes
describe contents of the table to be created, including the table name, and any
other commands that should be run after building.

 * MANAGING USERS                                      [Last Updated 2014/07/27]

    Users are managed by SQL Server. The auction program it's self has no
native concept of users. When using a local database "Trusted Authentication"
can be used when connecting. For practical usage (as all systems will not be
on the same domain) SQL Server user(s) must be added for other systems to use.

    As of Microsoft SQL Server 2014 users can be added using "Microsoft SQL
Server Management Studio". After connecting to the SQL Server instance, find the
"Security" node in the "Object Explorer". Expand the node, and right click on
the "Logins" node. Select "New Login..." from the context menu. Enter the user
name in the "Login name" text box. Select the "SQL Server authentication" radio
option. Enter and confirm the password. Uncheck the "User must change password
at next login", and optionally "Enforce password policy" and "Enforce password
expiration". Then go to the "User Mapping" page using the list in the upper
left. Check the database that the user should have access to, and under the role
memberships, select "db_datareader", "db_datawriter", and "db_owner". Once
finished, click "OK".
 
 * IMPORTING BUYER HISTORY                             [Last Updated 2015/06/16]
 
    The buyer history data is used assist buyer registration by facilitating
auto-complete using data from the previous year. 
    
 * ENTERING MARKET VALUES                              [Last Updated 2015/06/17]
 
    From the auction program, go to the "Market" tab. Enter a market ID, or
unique number (the asterisk button to the left of the text box can be used to
automatically generate a new unique number), "Animal/Item" name, value, and
unit. Check the "Allow Advertising" button if buyers are allowed turn the animal
back to the seller and pay only advertising. Check the "Valid Disposition" if
the animal requires a valid disposition. For example, if the market value of a
hog is $0.65/lb the "Animal/Item" would be "Hog", the "Price per Item/Unit"
would be "0.65", and the units would be lb. Buyers are also able to turn hogs
back to the seller (at least as of 2014) so the "Allow Advertising" check box
should be checked, and they require a valid disposition, so that box should be
checked as well. When all fields are completed, click "Save".

    Market values can be edited by entering the ID of the existing item into the
"Market ID" field. When ID of an existing item is entered and focus leaves that
text box, the rest of the boxes will be automatically populated with the
information from that item. Alternatively an item can be selected from the list
view above. In either case, make the necessary changes and click the "Save"
button. As long as the ID is not changed, the changes will overwrite the
existing record.
 
 * ENTERING WINFAIR EXHIBITORS                         [Last Updated 2015/07/24]
 
    Exhibitors can either be manually entered with the exhibits, or imported
prior to exhibit entry from a previous years data or from the WinFair Paradox
database. Manual entry can be done on either the "Exhibitors" screen, where
exhibitors can be entered alone, or on the "Exhibits" screen where the exhibitor
information can be entered as part of the exhibit record.

    Exhibitors can be imported from a prior year's SQL Server database. This has
the advantage of populating "Nick Names" which are not included in the WinFair
database.

    Exhibitors can be imported from the WinFair Paradox database. This
accelerates entry of exhibits and ensures that all exhibitors have a unique ID.
Select the "Import Exhibitors" option under the "File" menu, then browse to find
the "Exhibito.DB" file from WinFair. The program will then parse, filter the
records in the table down to just 4-H exhibitors with a first name (which
filters out the 4-H clubs), and compare the data to the current exhibitors
records. This process may take a few seconds depending on the size of the file
being imported. When this process completes, the results will be displayed in a
preview window. This window displays the ID, name, address, and whether or not
the record is new or has been changed in comparison to the current auction
exhibitors data. The status bar displays statistics about the data, including
total record count, number of additions and number of modifications. Click
"Import Records" to add the exhibitors to the auction database.
 
    "Nick Names". The WinFair database includes the exhibitor's formal name.
This does not necessarily match the name as it appears on the form.
    
 * IMPORTING OR ENTERING EXHIBITS
 
 * AUCTION ORDER                                       [Last Updated 2015/08/01]
 
	The auction order can be generated after Market Items, Exhibitors, and
Exhibits have been added to the database. Select "Action Order" under the file
menu. When the "Edit Auction Order" window is opened for the first time, all of
the exhibits will be in the bottom "Unsorted Exhibits" pane. Click the
"Regenerate Auction Order" button to randomly generate an order.

	The order can be changed by dragging and dropping exhibits within the top
"Current Auction Order" pane to change the order of the auction, or between the
top and bottom pane to add or remove exhibits from the auction.

	Changes can be undone using the revision list on the right side of the
screen. Select a revision to view it and click the "Switch to Selected Revision"
to back out any changes made since that revision.

DURING THE AUCTION
 * REGISTERING BUYERS
 * FOLLOWING THE AUCTION
 * BUYER CHECKOUT
 * BUYER VIEWER APPLICATION

AFTER THE AUCTION
 * EXHIBITOR RECEIPTS
 * REPORTS